The personal insulin calculator is a website where users can track the dosage of insulin that he or she needs based on carbohydrate intake and blood sugar levels. Users can create a profile that allows them to calculate the amount of insulin needed to cover a specific meal through food that they input, and then to track the amounts of insulin taken per meal. There are also several add-on functionalities described more in detail below.

The user can navigate from page to page through the drop-down menu button on the top-left corner of the page.  The steps for using the website are provided in the Info tab.  Furthermore, the resources tab provides an overview for several common types of diabetes and provides links to online resources (Mayo Clinic, HealthLine) that describe more in detail how to manage these diseases. If the user does not find their type of diabetes, there is a Google search bar at the bottom of the page that allows the user to search for whatever query they prefer, and that links to the Google search results for that specific query.

In terms of the personalized, user protected aspect of the website, a new user can register by creating a username and password (and also inputting their weight), which adds them to the users table in the insulin SQL database. There are several requirements for the password (>8 characters, at least one uppercase and one digit). Once registered, the user can then click on the food search tab to search for foods that are in the nutrition database and to query for the carbohydrate contents in those foods. The database was imported from a csv provided by the USDA Agricultural Research Service Nutrition Facts Database, and then modified to fit the needs of the calculator (edited to include carbohydrate content and a shortened food name).

If a food is not in the database, the user can add a new food item using the Add Foods tab. By inputting the food name and the food’s carbohydrate content (up to two decimal points), this new food item will be added to the nutrition database containing all of the foods and their carbohydrate contents, and an alert will popup showing that the user has just added the food item. However, if the food item already exists in the database, a bootstrap alert will warn the user that the food item already exists.

After all the appropriate food items have been added to the database, the user can then enter the foods eaten for a particular meal in the food input tab.  When the page is first loaded, only one food item and serving input field exists.  To add an additional food item, the user can press the add button.  This will add an additional food item and serving input field.  The user also enters the current and target blood sugar level.  This info is used to adjust the dosage of insulin to account for higher blood sugar levels.  Once all the input fields have been entered, the user can press submit, which will return another page with the total dosage of insulin needed to cover the total carbohydrates consumed for a meal.

To view the foods entered by the user, the user can navigate to the history tab, which contains the history of foods eaten each day.  The table is sorted in chronological order and alphabetically by food name.  The table also contains the total dosage of insulin, in case the user wants to see the insulin dosage on a certain day for a certain meal.

The user can logout of his or her account after using the insulin calculator, and all the information will be securely stored in the SQL database until the user logins again.
